CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to Ferra

Thank you for your interest in contributing to Ferra! This guide will walk you through the process of setting up your environment, following our conventions, and submitting your changes.

---

## 1. Setup

1. **Fork & Clone**  
   Clone your fork of the repo using SSH or HTTPS:
   ```bash
   # SSH
   git clone git@github.com:Starr2591/ferra-lang.git

   # or HTTPS
   git clone https://github.com/Starr2591/ferra-lang.git

   cd ferra-lang
   ```
2. **Install Rust Toolchain**  
   We lock to the stable toolchain via `rust-toolchain.toml`.
   ```bash
   rustup update
   rustup default stable
   ```

---

## 2. Branching & Commits

1. **Create a feature branch** for each change, using a prefix that matches your commit type:
   - `feat/lexer-plus-token`
   - `fix/parser-empty-input`
   - `docs/contributing-guide`
   ```bash
   git checkout -b feat/lexer-plus-token
   ```
2. **Commit messages** should follow [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/), for example:
   ```
   feat(lexer): emit Plus token
   fix(parser): handle empty input
   docs: update CONTRIBUTING.md
   ```

---

## 3. Coding Standards

1. All code must comply with our [Coding Standards](./CODING_STANDARDS.md).
2. Format your code:
   ```bash
   cargo fmt -- --check
   ```
3. Lint your code:
   ```bash
   cargo clippy --all-targets -- -D warnings
   ```

---

## 4. Running Tests

1. Run the full test suite and ensure everything passes:
   ```bash
   cargo test --workspace
   ```

---

## 5. Proposing Changes

1. Push your feature branch to your fork:
   ```bash
   git push origin feat/your-branch
   ```
2. Open a Pull Request against the `main` branch of the upstream repository.
3. Ensure CI checks pass (formatting, clippy, tests).
4. Describe your change clearly in the PR description and link to any related issues.

---

## 6. Issue & PR Templates

We provide templates to keep reports and PRs consistent. GitHub will automatically load the right one when you open an issue or pull request:

- 🐛 **Bug reports**: use `.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.md`
- ✨ **Feature requests**: use `.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/feature_request.md`
- 📦 **Pull requests**: use `.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md`

Refer to these whenever you file something so that all the necessary fields are filled out.

---

## 7. Design Docs & Resources

1. When working on a specific component, refer to its design doc:
   1. Lexer: [`docs/DESIGN_LEXER.md`](./docs/DESIGN_LEXER.md)
   2. Parser: [`docs/DESIGN_PARSER.md`](./docs/DESIGN_PARSER.md)
   3. AST: [`docs/AST_SPECIFICATION.md`](./docs/AST_SPECIFICATION.md)
   4. IR: [`docs/IR_SPECIFICATION.md`](./docs/IR_SPECIFICATION.md)
   5. Backend: [`docs/BACKEND_LLVM_X86-64.md`](./docs/BACKEND_LLVM_X86-64.md)
   6. Type Inference: [`docs/DESIGN_TYPE_INFERENCE.md`](./docs/DESIGN_TYPE_INFERENCE.md)
   7. Diagnostics: [`docs/DESIGN_DIAGNOSTICS.md`](./docs/DESIGN_DIAGNOSTICS.md)
   8. Ownership/Borrowing: [`docs/OWNERSHIP_BORROW_CHECKER.md`](./docs/OWNERSHIP_BORROW_CHECKER.md)
   9. Concurrency: [`docs/CONCURRENCY_MODEL.md`](./docs/CONCURRENCY_MODEL.md)
   10. ...and others in the `docs/` directory.
2. CI: [`ci.yml`](.github/workflows/ci.yml) enforces formatting, linting, and tests on every PR.

---

Thank you for helping make Ferra better! 🎉

---
For more, see the [README](README.md) and the `docs/` directory.

Commit message:

docs: update repo/org URLs to ferra-language/ferra-lang

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to Ferra

> **Default branch:** This repo uses **`main`**.  
> When you fork or clone, Git will check out `main`—there is no `master` branch.

Thank you for your interest in contributing to Ferra! This guide will walk you through the process of setting up your environment, following our conventions, and submitting your changes.

---

## 1. Setup

1. Fork the upstream repo on GitHub.
2. Clone your fork (replace `<YOUR_GITHUB_USERNAME>` with the name you see in your browser's address bar after forking):
   ```bash
   git clone git@github.com:<YOUR_GITHUB_USERNAME>/ferra-lang.git
   cd ferra-lang
   ```
3. Install Rust Toolchain  
   We lock to the stable toolchain via `rust-toolchain.toml`.
   ```bash
   rustup update
   rustup default stable
   ```

---

## 2. Branching & Commits

1. **Create a feature branch** for each change, using a prefix that matches your commit type:
   - `feat/lexer-plus-token`
   - `fix/parser-empty-input`
   - `docs/contributing-guide`
   ```bash
   git checkout -b feat/lexer-plus-token
   ```
2. **Commit messages** should follow [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/), for example:
   ```
   feat(lexer): emit Plus token
   fix(parser): handle empty input
   docs: update CONTRIBUTING.md
   ```

---

## 3. Coding Standards

1. All code must comply with our [Coding Standards](./CODING_STANDARDS.md).
2. Format your code:
   ```bash
   cargo fmt -- --check
   ```
3. Lint your code:
   ```bash
   cargo clippy --all-targets -- -D warnings
   ```

---

## 4. Running Tests

1. Run the full test suite and ensure everything passes:
   ```bash
   cargo test --workspace
   ```

---

## 5. Proposing Changes

1. Push your feature branch to your fork:
   ```bash
   git push origin feat/your-branch
   ```
2. Open a Pull Request against the `main` branch of the upstream repository.
3. Ensure CI checks pass (formatting, clippy, tests).
4. Describe your change clearly in the PR description and link to any related issues.

---

## 6. Issue & PR Templates

We provide templates to keep reports and PRs consistent. GitHub will automatically load the right one when you open an issue or pull request:

- 🐛 **Bug reports**: use `.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.md`
- ✨ **Feature requests**: use `.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/feature_request.md`
- 📦 **Pull requests**: use `.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md`

Refer to these whenever you file something so that all the necessary fields are filled out.

---

## 7. Design Docs & Resources

1. When working on a specific component, refer to its design doc:
   1. Lexer: [`docs/DESIGN_LEXER.md`](./docs/DESIGN_LEXER.md)
   2. Parser: [`docs/DESIGN_PARSER.md`](./docs/DESIGN_PARSER.md)
   3. AST: [`docs/AST_SPECIFICATION.md`](./docs/AST_SPECIFICATION.md)
   4. IR: [`docs/IR_SPECIFICATION.md`](./docs/IR_SPECIFICATION.md)
   5. Backend: [`docs/BACKEND_LLVM_X86-64.md`](./docs/BACKEND_LLVM_X86-64.md)
   6. Type Inference: [`docs/DESIGN_TYPE_INFERENCE.md`](./docs/DESIGN_TYPE_INFERENCE.md)
   7. Diagnostics: [`docs/DESIGN_DIAGNOSTICS.md`](./docs/DESIGN_DIAGNOSTICS.md)
   8. Ownership/Borrowing: [`docs/OWNERSHIP_BORROW_CHECKER.md`](./docs/OWNERSHIP_BORROW_CHECKER.md)
   9. Concurrency: [`docs/CONCURRENCY_MODEL.md`](./docs/CONCURRENCY_MODEL.md)
   10. ...and others in the `docs/` directory.
2. CI: [`ci.yml`](.github/workflows/ci.yml) enforces formatting, linting, and tests on every PR.

---

Thank you for helping make Ferra better! 🎉
